# Skincare_Chatbot

The skincare industry is predicted to expand 4.8% each year for the next seven years. Consumers have focused more on skincare and their physical appearance in the last few years especially in aspects such as skin disorders and malignancies. Skincare products with natural ingredients are likely to see significant demand over the years from the growing consumer inclination toward natural beauty products. With a more focused interest in the ingredients that are in their products, it would be beneficial to build a chatbot to answer skincare ingredient questions.

The objective is to build a chatbot similar to a customer service agent that answers questions on skincare ingredients and their respective benefits on various skincare concerns. In order to create a chatbot, text from four web articles were collected. The four sources include Refinery29, Good Housekeeping, Byrdie, and Vogue. These texts were selected with the objective in mind, so the documents contain information on skincare ingredients and the skin concerns that they treat. 

An ontology will be constructed based on the collected skincare documents to gain an understanding of the document contents and the type of questions that the chatbot will be able to answer. Knowledge graphs will also be built to visualize the relationships between entity pairs in the documents. The chatbot will then be constructed using NLTK by vectorizing the text from the documents and computing the similarity between the question and sentence tokens. With the use of cosine similarity, the chatbot will be able to answer the question with the most similar sentence to that question. Another chatbot will be built with the same objective of answering skincare ingredient questions. It, instead, will only be able to provide a binary yes/no response to questions. This chatbot will be built using keras with an attention-LSTM model.

The ontology helped to identify the type of questions that can be asked using the document text. These questions included asking what a specific ingredient is, what skin concern the ingredient treats, what ingredient treats which skin concern, what group the ingredient belongs to, and what ingredient can be substituted for the other. These types of questions were successfully answered by the chatbot using NLTK. The chatbot gave relevant answers to those four types of questions. The formatting of the answer was a little off, but otherwise, did a good job. From the two methods of using NLTK and keras, the chatbot created using NLTK yielded the best results in answering skincare ingredient related questions with relevant and correct responses. The chatbot could use some more preprocessing before implementation for formatting and performance purposes, but overall does a good job in providing quality answers. 
